# Quasi-Monte Carlo Community Software

<hr>

## Overview
Quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC) methods are used to approximate multivariate integrals. They have four main components: an integrand, a discrete distribution, summary output data, and stopping criterion. Information about the integrand is obtained as a sequence of values of the function sampled at the data-sites of the discrete distribution. The stopping criterion tells the algorithm when the user-specified error tolerance has been satisfied. We are developing a framework that allows collaborators in the QMC community to develop plug-and-play modules in an effort to produce more efficient and portable QMC software. Each of the above four components is an abstract class. Abstract classes specify the common properties and methods of all subclasses. The ways in which the four kinds of classes interact with each other are also specified. Subclasses then flesh out different integrands, sampling schemes, and stopping criteria. Besides providing developers a way to link their new ideas with those implemented by the rest of the QMC community, we also aim to provide practitioners with state-of-the-art QMC software for their applications. 

<hr>

## qmcpy
<b>Quasi-Monte Carlo software package with components in python 3</b><br>
<b>Components:</b>
- Integrand classes
- True Measure classes
- Discrete Distribution classes
- Stopping Criterion classes
- Accumulate Data classes
- Third Party contributed classes
- integrate function

<hr>

## workouts
<b>Example uses of qmcpy package</b><br>
<b>Available workouts:</b>
- Generate 3d distribution sample visualization
- Vary absolute tolerance for multi-level Asian Option Pricing example
- Asian option pricing examples with single and multi-level examples with varying discrete distributions
- Keister integrand examples with varying discrete distributions

<hr>

## test
<b>Unittests</b><br>
<b>Testing sets:</b>
- fast-tests: Quick unittests. Run in < 1 second
- long-tests: Unittest that call workouts. Runs in < 10 seconds

<hr>

## outputs
<b>Logs and figures generated by workouts</b>

<hr>

## demos
<b>Example use of qmcpy as an independent package</b>

<hr>

## sphinx
<b>Automated project documentation</b>

<hr>
<hr>

## Developers
This package was originally developed in MATLAB by Fred J. Hickernell.<br>
Translated to Python by Sou-Cheng T. Choi and Aleksei Sorokin.

If you find Qmcpy helpful in your work, please support us by citing the
following work:

Fred J. Hickernell, Sou-Cheng T. Choi, and Aleksei Sorokin, “QMC  Community Software.” MATLAB and Python 3
software, 2019. Work in progress. Available on [GitHub](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware)

<hr>

## Contributors 
Dirk Nuyens Magic Point Shop 
- qmcpy/distribution/magic_point_shop
- F.Y. Kuo & D. Nuyens. Application of quasi-Monte Carlo methods to elliptic PDEs with random diffusion coefficients - a survey of analysis and implementation, Foundations of Computational Mathematics, 16(6):1631-1696, 2016. ([springer link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10208-016-9329-5), [arxiv link](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.06613))

<hr>

## Tips
It may be helpful to create a virtual environment for this project.<br>
Packages and versions are maintained in requirements.txt.<br>
In order for the software to find packages, make sure .../python_prototypes/ is in your path.



