python_prototype/sphinx/markdown_to_rst/python_prototype.rst, before:

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
..

Python 3 Library of QMC Software
================================

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

QMCPy
-----

Package of main components

-  Integrand classes
-  True Measure classes
-  Discrete Distribution classes
-  Stopping Criterion classes
-  Accumulate Data classes
-  Third Party contributed classes
-  integrate function

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

workouts
--------

Example uses of QMCPy package

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

test
----

Sets of long and short unittests

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

outputs
-------

Logs and figures generated by workouts

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

demos
-----

Example use of QMCPy as an independent package

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

sphinx
------

Automated project documentation is compiled with
`Sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/>`__ and is available at the
following websites: \*
`GitHub <https://qmcsoftware.github.io/QMCSoftware/>`__ \* `Read the
Docs <https://qmcpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Installation
------------

::

   pip install qmcpy

A virtual environment is recommended for developers/contributors Ensure
*…/python_prototypes/* is in your path Install dependencies with

::

   pip install requirements.txt

Commit message:

First version of epub with LaTeX displayed properly.

python_prototype/sphinx/markdown_to_rst/python_prototype.rst, after:

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
..

Python 3 Library of QMC Software
================================

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

QMCPy
-----

Package of main components

-  Integrand classes
-  True Measure classes
-  Discrete Distribution classes
-  Stopping Criterion classes
-  Accumulate Data classes
-  Third Party contributed classes
-  integrate function

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

workouts
--------

Example uses of QMCPy package

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

test
----

Sets of long and short unittests

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

outputs
-------

Logs and figures generated by workouts

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

demos
-----

Example use of QMCPy as an independent package

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

sphinx
------

Automated project documentation is compiled with
`Sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/>`__ and is available at the
following websites: \*
`GitHub <https://qmcsoftware.github.io/QMCSoftware/>`__ \* `Read the
Docs <https://qmcpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__

In addition, PDF version is available at: \*
`GitHub <https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/master/docs/qmcpy.pdf>`__
\* `Read the
Docs <https://readthedocs.org/projects/qmcpy/downloads/pdf/latest/>`__

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Installation
------------

::

   pip install qmcpy

A virtual environment is recommended for developers/contributors Ensure
*…/python_prototypes/* is in your path Install dependencies with

::

   pip install requirements.txt
