sphinx/readme_rst/QMCSoftware.rst, before:

Quasi-Monte Carlo Community Software
====================================

Quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC) methods are used to approximate multivariate
integrals. They have four main components: an integrand, a discrete
distribution, summary output data, and stopping criterion. Information
about the integrand is obtained as a sequence of values of the function
sampled at the data-sites of the discrete distribution. The stopping
criterion tells the algorithm when the user-specified error tolerance
has been satisfied. We are developing a framework that allows
collaborators in the QMC community to develop plug-and-play modules in
an effort to produce more efficient and portable QMC software. Each of
the above four components is an abstract class. Abstract classes specify
the common properties and methods of all subclasses. The ways in which
the four kinds of classes interact with each other are also specified.
Subclasses then flesh out different integrands, sampling schemes, and
stopping criteria. Besides providing developers a way to link their new
ideas with those implemented by the rest of the QMC community, we also
aim to provide practitioners with state-of-the-art QMC software for
their applications.

`Homepage <https://qmcsoftware.github.io/QMCSoftware/>`__ \|
`GitHub <https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware>`__ \| `Read the
Docs <https://qmcpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__ \|
`PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/qmcpy/>`__

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Installation
------------

::

    pip install qmcpy

**For Developers/Contributors**

This package is dependent on the ``qmcpy/`` directory being on your
python path. This is easiest with a virtual environment. For example,
using ``virtualenv`` and ``virtualenvwrapper``

::

    mkvirtualenv qmcpy
    git clone https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware.git
    cd QMCSoftware
    setvirtualenvproject
    add2virtualenv $(pwd)
    pip install -r requirements/dev.txt
    pip install -e ./

To check for successful installation run

::

    make tests

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Documentation
-------------

The QMCPy Read the Docs is located
`here <https://qmcpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__ with HTML, PDF, and
EPUB downloads available
`here <https://readthedocs.org/projects/qmcpy/downloads/>`__.

Automated project documentation is compiled with
`Sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/>`__. To compile HTML, PDF, or EPUB
docs locally into ``sphinx/_build/`` first install additional
requirements with

::

    pip install -r requirements/dev_docs.txt

and then run one of the following three commands

::

    make doc_html
    make doc_pdf
    make doc_epub

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

QMCPy
-----

The central package including the 5 main components as listed below.
Each component is implemented as abstract classes with concrete
implementations. For example, the lattice and Sobol sequences are
implemented as concrete implementations of the ``DiscreteDistribution``
abstract class. A complete list of concrete implementations and thorough
documentation can be found on the `QMCPy Read the Docs
site <https://qmcpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms.html>`__.

-  **Stopping Criterion:** determines the number of samples necessary to
   meet an error tolerence.
-  **Integrand:** the function/process whose expected value will be
   approximated.
-  **True Measure:** the distribution which the integrand is defined
   for.
-  **Discrete Distribution:** a generator of nodes/sequences, that can
   be either iid (for Monte Carlo) or low-discrepancy (for quasi-Monte
   Carlo), that mimic a standard distribution.
-  **Accumulate Data:** stores information from integration process.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Workouts and Demos
------------------

Workouts extensively test and compare the componenets of the the QMCPy
package. Demos, implemented as Jupyter notebooks, demonstrate
functionality and uses cases for QMCPy. They often draw from and explore
the output of various workouts.

To run all workouts (~10 min) use the command

::

    make workout

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Unitests
--------

Combined fast (<1 sec) and long (<10 sec) unittests can be run with

::

    make tests

To run either fast or long unittests use either of the following 2
commands

::

    python -W ignore -m unittest discover -s test/fasttests
    python -W ignore -m unittest discover -s test/longtests

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Developers
----------

-  Sou-Cheng T. Choi
-  Fred J. Hickernell
-  Michael McCourt
-  Jagadeeswaran Rathinavel
-  Aleksei Sorokin

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Collaborators
-------------

-  Mike Giles
-  Marius Hofert
-  Christiane Lemieux
-  Dirk Nuyens

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Citation
--------

If you find QMCPy helpful in your work, please support us by citing the
following work:

Choi, S.-C. T., Hickernell, F. J., McCourt, M., Rathinavel, J. &
Sorokin, A. QMCPy: A quasi-Monte Carlo Python Library. Working. 2020.
https://qmcsoftware.github.io/QMCSoftware/.

This work is maintained under the Apache 2.0 License.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

References
----------

[1] F.Y. Kuo & D. Nuyens. "Application of quasi-Monte Carlo methods to
elliptic PDEs with random diffusion coefficients - a survey of analysis
and implementation",Foundations of Computational Mathematics,
16(6):1631-1696, 2016. (`springer
link <https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10208-016-9329-5>`__,
`arxiv link <https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.06613>`__)

[2] Fred J. Hickernell, Lan Jiang, Yuewei Liu, and Art B. Owen,
"Guaranteed conservative fixed width confidence intervals via Monte
Carlo sampling," Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods 2012 (J.
Dick, F.Y. Kuo, G. W. Peters, and I. H. Sloan, eds.), pp. 105-128,
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2014. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-41095-6\_5

[3] Sou-Cheng T. Choi, Yuhan Ding, Fred J. Hickernell, Lan Jiang, Lluis
Antoni Jimenez Rugama, Da Li, Jagadeeswaran Rathinavel, Xin Tong, Kan
Zhang, Yizhi Zhang, and Xuan Zhou, GAIL: Guaranteed Automatic
Integration Library (Version 2.3) [MATLAB Software], 2019. Available
from http://gailgithub.github.io/GAIL\_Dev/

[4] Sou-Cheng T. Choi, "MINRES-QLP Pack and Reliable Reproducible
Research via Supportable Scientific Software," Journal of Open Research
Software, Volume 2, Number 1, e22, pp. 1-7, 2014.

[5] Sou-Cheng T. Choi and Fred J. Hickernell, "IIT MATH-573 Reliable
Mathematical Software" [Course Slides], Illinois Institute of
Technology, Chicago, IL, 2013. Available from
http://gailgithub.github.io/GAIL\_Dev/

[6] Daniel S. Katz, Sou-Cheng T. Choi, Hilmar Lapp, Ketan Maheshwari,
Frank Loffler, Matthew Turk, Marcus D. Hanwell, Nancy Wilkins-Diehr,
James Hetherington, James Howison, Shel Swenson, Gabrielle D. Allen,
Anne C. Elster, Bruce Berriman, Colin Venters, "Summary of the First
Workshop On Sustainable Software for Science: Practice and Experiences
(WSSSPE1)," Journal of Open Research Software, Volume 2, Number 1, e6,
pp. 1-21, 2014.

[7] Fang, K.-T., & Wang, Y. (1994). Number-theoretic Methods in
Statistics. London, UK: CHAPMAN & HALL

[8] Lan Jiang, Guaranteed Adaptive Monte Carlo Methods for Estimating
Means of Random Variables, PhD Thesis, Illinois Institute of Technology,
2016.

[9] Lluis Antoni Jimenez Rugama and Fred J. Hickernell, "Adaptive
multidimensional integration based on rank-1 lattices," Monte Carlo and
Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods: MCQMC, Leuven, Belgium, April 2014 (R. Cools
and D. Nuyens, eds.), Springer Proceedings in Mathematics and
Statistics, vol. 163, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2016, arXiv:1411.1966,
pp. 407-422.

[10] Kai-Tai Fang and Yuan Wang, Number-theoretic Methods in Statistics,
Chapman & Hall, London, 1994.

[11] Fred J. Hickernell and Lluis Antoni Jimenez Rugama, "Reliable
adaptive cubature using digital sequences", Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte
Carlo Methods: MCQMC, Leuven, Belgium, April 2014 (R. Cools and D.
Nuyens, eds.), Springer Proceedings in Mathematics and Statistics, vol.
163, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2016, arXiv:1410.8615 [math.NA], pp.
367-383.

[12] Marius Hofert and Christiane Lemieux (2019). qrng: (Randomized)
Quasi-Random Number Generators. R package version 0.0-7.
https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=qrng.

[13] Faure, Henri, and Christiane Lemieux. “Implementation of
Irreducible Sobol’ Sequences in Prime Power Bases.” Mathematics and
Computers in Simulation 161 (2019): 13–22. Crossref. Web.

[14] M.B. Giles. 'Multi-level Monte Carlo path simulation'. Operations
Research, 56(3):607-617, 2008.
http://people.maths.ox.ac.uk/~gilesm/files/OPRE\_2008.pdf.

[15] M.B. Giles. \`Improved multilevel Monte Carlo convergence using the
Milstein scheme'. 343-358, in Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods
2006, Springer, 2008.
http://people.maths.ox.ac.uk/~gilesm/files/mcqmc06.pdf.

[16] M.B. Giles and B.J. Waterhouse. 'Multilevel quasi-Monte Carlo path
simulation'. pp.165-181 in Advanced Financial Modelling, in Radon Series
on Computational and Applied Mathematics, de Gruyter, 2009.
http://people.maths.ox.ac.uk/~gilesm/files/radon.pdf

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Sponsors
--------

Commit message:

update README with make _doc

sphinx/readme_rst/QMCSoftware.rst, after:

Quasi-Monte Carlo Community Software
====================================

Quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC) methods are used to approximate multivariate
integrals. They have four main components: an integrand, a discrete
distribution, summary output data, and stopping criterion. Information
about the integrand is obtained as a sequence of values of the function
sampled at the data-sites of the discrete distribution. The stopping
criterion tells the algorithm when the user-specified error tolerance
has been satisfied. We are developing a framework that allows
collaborators in the QMC community to develop plug-and-play modules in
an effort to produce more efficient and portable QMC software. Each of
the above four components is an abstract class. Abstract classes specify
the common properties and methods of all subclasses. The ways in which
the four kinds of classes interact with each other are also specified.
Subclasses then flesh out different integrands, sampling schemes, and
stopping criteria. Besides providing developers a way to link their new
ideas with those implemented by the rest of the QMC community, we also
aim to provide practitioners with state-of-the-art QMC software for
their applications.

`Homepage <https://qmcsoftware.github.io/QMCSoftware/>`__ \|
`GitHub <https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware>`__ \| `Read the
Docs <https://qmcpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__ \|
`PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/qmcpy/>`__

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Installation
------------

::

    pip install qmcpy

**For Developers/Contributors**

This package is dependent on the ``qmcpy/`` directory being on your
python path. This is easiest with a virtual environment. For example,
using ``virtualenv`` and ``virtualenvwrapper``

::

    mkvirtualenv qmcpy
    git clone https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware.git
    cd QMCSoftware
    setvirtualenvproject
    add2virtualenv $(pwd)
    pip install -r requirements/dev.txt
    pip install -e ./

For ``conda`` users,

::

    conda create --name qmcpy python=3.6
    conda activate qmcpy
    git clone https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware.git
    cd QMCSoftware
    git checkout develop
    pip install -r requirements/dev.txt
    pip install -e ./

To check for successful installation, run

::

    make tests

Note that the QRNG C backend files can be explicitely recompiled with

::

    pip install -e ./

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Documentation
-------------

The QMCPy Read the Docs is located
`here <https://qmcpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__ with HTML, PDF, and
EPUB downloads available
`here <https://readthedocs.org/projects/qmcpy/downloads/>`__.

Automated project documentation is compiled with
`Sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/>`__. To compile HTML, PDF, or EPUB
docs locally into ``sphinx/_build/`` first install additional
requirements

::

    pip install -r requirements/dev_docs.txt

Then setup Sphinx paths (only needs to be run once for initialization)

::

    make _doc

Finally, run one of the following three commands

::

    make doc_html
    make doc_pdf
    make doc_epub

To recompile documentation you now only need one of the above three
commands.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

QMCPy
-----

The central package including the 5 main components as listed below.
Each component is implemented as abstract classes with concrete
implementations. For example, the lattice and Sobol sequences are
implemented as concrete implementations of the ``DiscreteDistribution``
abstract class. A complete list of concrete implementations and thorough
documentation can be found on the `QMCPy Read the Docs
site <https://qmcpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithms.html>`__.

-  **Stopping Criterion:** determines the number of samples necessary to
   meet an error tolerence.
-  **Integrand:** the function/process whose expected value will be
   approximated.
-  **True Measure:** the distribution which the integrand is defined
   for.
-  **Discrete Distribution:** a generator of nodes/sequences, that can
   be either iid (for Monte Carlo) or low-discrepancy (for quasi-Monte
   Carlo), that mimic a standard distribution.
-  **Accumulate Data:** stores information from integration process.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Workouts and Demos
------------------

Workouts extensively test and compare the componenets of the the QMCPy
package. Demos, implemented as Jupyter notebooks, demonstrate
functionality and uses cases for QMCPy. They often draw from and explore
the output of various workouts.

To run all workouts (~10 min) use the command

::

    make workout

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Unitests
--------

Combined fast (<1 sec) and long (<10 sec) unittests can be run with

::

    make tests

To run either fast or long unittests use either of the following 2
commands

::

    python -W ignore -m unittest discover -s test/fasttests
    python -W ignore -m unittest discover -s test/longtests

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Developers
----------

-  Sou-Cheng T. Choi
-  Fred J. Hickernell
-  Michael McCourt
-  Jagadeeswaran Rathinavel
-  Aleksei Sorokin

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Collaborators
-------------

-  Mike Giles
-  Marius Hofert
-  Christiane Lemieux
-  Dirk Nuyens

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Citation
--------

If you find QMCPy helpful in your work, please support us by citing the
following work:

Choi, S.-C. T., Hickernell, F. J., McCourt, M., Rathinavel, J. &
Sorokin, A. QMCPy: A quasi-Monte Carlo Python Library. Working. 2020.
https://qmcsoftware.github.io/QMCSoftware/.

This work is maintained under the Apache 2.0 License.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

References
----------

[1] F.Y. Kuo & D. Nuyens. "Application of quasi-Monte Carlo methods to
elliptic PDEs with random diffusion coefficients - a survey of analysis
and implementation",Foundations of Computational Mathematics,
16(6):1631-1696, 2016. (`springer
link <https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10208-016-9329-5>`__,
`arxiv link <https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.06613>`__)

[2] Fred J. Hickernell, Lan Jiang, Yuewei Liu, and Art B. Owen,
"Guaranteed conservative fixed width confidence intervals via Monte
Carlo sampling," Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods 2012 (J.
Dick, F.Y. Kuo, G. W. Peters, and I. H. Sloan, eds.), pp. 105-128,
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2014. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-41095-6\_5

[3] Sou-Cheng T. Choi, Yuhan Ding, Fred J. Hickernell, Lan Jiang, Lluis
Antoni Jimenez Rugama, Da Li, Jagadeeswaran Rathinavel, Xin Tong, Kan
Zhang, Yizhi Zhang, and Xuan Zhou, GAIL: Guaranteed Automatic
Integration Library (Version 2.3) [MATLAB Software], 2019. Available
from http://gailgithub.github.io/GAIL\_Dev/

[4] Sou-Cheng T. Choi, "MINRES-QLP Pack and Reliable Reproducible
Research via Supportable Scientific Software," Journal of Open Research
Software, Volume 2, Number 1, e22, pp. 1-7, 2014.

[5] Sou-Cheng T. Choi and Fred J. Hickernell, "IIT MATH-573 Reliable
Mathematical Software" [Course Slides], Illinois Institute of
Technology, Chicago, IL, 2013. Available from
http://gailgithub.github.io/GAIL\_Dev/

[6] Daniel S. Katz, Sou-Cheng T. Choi, Hilmar Lapp, Ketan Maheshwari,
Frank Loffler, Matthew Turk, Marcus D. Hanwell, Nancy Wilkins-Diehr,
James Hetherington, James Howison, Shel Swenson, Gabrielle D. Allen,
Anne C. Elster, Bruce Berriman, Colin Venters, "Summary of the First
Workshop On Sustainable Software for Science: Practice and Experiences
(WSSSPE1)," Journal of Open Research Software, Volume 2, Number 1, e6,
pp. 1-21, 2014.

[7] Fang, K.-T., & Wang, Y. (1994). Number-theoretic Methods in
Statistics. London, UK: CHAPMAN & HALL

[8] Lan Jiang, Guaranteed Adaptive Monte Carlo Methods for Estimating
Means of Random Variables, PhD Thesis, Illinois Institute of Technology,
2016.

[9] Lluis Antoni Jimenez Rugama and Fred J. Hickernell, "Adaptive
multidimensional integration based on rank-1 lattices," Monte Carlo and
Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods: MCQMC, Leuven, Belgium, April 2014 (R. Cools
and D. Nuyens, eds.), Springer Proceedings in Mathematics and
Statistics, vol. 163, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2016, arXiv:1411.1966,
pp. 407-422.

[10] Kai-Tai Fang and Yuan Wang, Number-theoretic Methods in Statistics,
Chapman & Hall, London, 1994.

[11] Fred J. Hickernell and Lluis Antoni Jimenez Rugama, "Reliable
adaptive cubature using digital sequences", Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte
Carlo Methods: MCQMC, Leuven, Belgium, April 2014 (R. Cools and D.
Nuyens, eds.), Springer Proceedings in Mathematics and Statistics, vol.
163, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2016, arXiv:1410.8615 [math.NA], pp.
367-383.

[12] Marius Hofert and Christiane Lemieux (2019). qrng: (Randomized)
Quasi-Random Number Generators. R package version 0.0-7.
https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=qrng.

[13] Faure, Henri, and Christiane Lemieux. “Implementation of
Irreducible Sobol’ Sequences in Prime Power Bases.” Mathematics and
Computers in Simulation 161 (2019): 13–22. Crossref. Web.

[14] M.B. Giles. 'Multi-level Monte Carlo path simulation'. Operations
Research, 56(3):607-617, 2008.
http://people.maths.ox.ac.uk/~gilesm/files/OPRE\_2008.pdf.

[15] M.B. Giles. \`Improved multilevel Monte Carlo convergence using the
Milstein scheme'. 343-358, in Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods
2006, Springer, 2008.
http://people.maths.ox.ac.uk/~gilesm/files/mcqmc06.pdf.

[16] M.B. Giles and B.J. Waterhouse. 'Multilevel quasi-Monte Carlo path
simulation'. pp.165-181 in Advanced Financial Modelling, in Radon Series
on Computational and Applied Mathematics, de Gruyter, 2009.
http://people.maths.ox.ac.uk/~gilesm/files/radon.pdf

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Sponsors
--------
