paper/README.md, before:

# QMCPy JOSS Paper

**Authors:** Aleksei G. Sorokin, Fred J. Hickernell, Sou-Cheng T. Choi, Jagadeeswaaran Rathinavel, Pieterjan Robbe, and Aadit Jain
 
* The folder `paper` in the branch `joss` of GitHub repository [QMCSoftware](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/tree/joss) contains the source files for the QMCPy paper to be submitted to the [Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS)](https://joss.theoj.org).
<!-- 
The GitHub repository [`qmcpy_joss`](https://github.com/sou-cheng-choi/qmcpy_joss) contains the source files for the QMCPy paper to be submitted to the [Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS)](https://joss.theoj.org).
- The paper is also hosted on [Overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com/project/677ca1b09ea39e406392e350).
-->
- For internal discussions, join the QMCPy [Slack channel](https://speedyreliabl-dvj5497.slack.com/archives/C07PNS0DMDX).

---

<!-->
## Submission Guidelines
- [JOSS Paper Format](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/paper.html): Only markdown format is supported
- 250 to 1000 words (excluding references)
- [JOSS Example Paper](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_paper.html)
- [JOSS Review criteria](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/review_criteria.html)
- [Pieterjan's 2024 JOSS paper for GaussianRandomFields.jl](https://github.com/PieterjanRobbe/GaussianRandomFields.jl) 
  + in the repository's folder  "paper."
  + review process and **reviewer checklist** can be found here: https://github.com/openjournals/joss-reviews/issues/5595
- Put the JOSS paper in a (short-lived) `paper` branch created from the default branch --- no need to merge back to the default branch after review.

---
-->

## Contents
### Main File
- [**`main.md`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/main.md): Main paper source (Markdown format)

### Bibliography Files
- [**`FJH25.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/FJH25.bib): Fred J. Hickernell bibliography (2025)
- [**`FJHown25.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/FJHown25.bib): Bibliography entries of products by Hickernell
- [**`choi2025.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/choi2025.bib): Bibliography entries by Sou-Cheng T. Choi and co-authors (2025)
- [**`other.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/other.bib): Miscellaneous bibliography entries
- [**`refs_all.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/refs_all.bib): Combined bibliography (auto-generated by `make`)

### Other Files
- [**`joss2025.ipynb`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/demos/talk_paper_demos/JOSS2025/joss2025.ipynb): Jupyter notebook with QMCPy code for reproducing figures in the paper
- [**`JOS2025.outputs`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/tree/joss/demos/talk_paper_demos/JOSS2025/JOSS2025.outputs): Figures and data for JOSS submission

### Build System
- [**`joss.yml`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/.github/workflows/joss.yml): GitHub Actions CI/CD configuration
- [**`Makefile`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/Makefile): Build system for Markdown and LaTeX workflows
- [**`include-code-files.lua`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/include-code-files.lua): Pandoc Lua filter of lines for inline inclusion of Python or text files in `main.md`
- [**`joss-simple.csl`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/joss-simple.csl): Citation Style Language file for local compilation using make

--- 
## Building the Paper

### Remote Build 
The PDF is generated automatically on each commit:
1. Go to the [Actions page](https://github.com/sou-cheng-choi/qmcpy_joss/actions).
2. Open the latest workflow run.
3. Download the PDF from the Artifacts section.

### Local Build

Run:
```bash
cd paper
make
```
This cleans outputs, combines bibliographies, builds `main.pdf` with Pandoc, and shows the word count.

Other Commands:

- `make clean`: Removes auxiliary files.
- `make cleanall`: Deletes all outputs, including PDFs.
- `make refs_all.bib`: Combines bibliography files.
- `make wordcount`: Counts words in `main.md` (excludes metadata/references).
- `make install-mac`:  Install required tools on macOS using Homebrew.

Commit message:

+JOSS bib entry and main.tex

paper/README.md, after:

# QMCPy JOSS Paper

**Authors:** Aleksei G. Sorokin, Fred J. Hickernell, Sou-Cheng T. Choi, Jagadeeswaaran Rathinavel, Pieterjan Robbe, and Aadit Jain
 
* The folder `paper` in the branch `joss` of GitHub repository [QMCSoftware](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/tree/joss) contains the source files for the QMCPy paper to be submitted to the [Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS)](https://joss.theoj.org).
<!-- 
The GitHub repository [`qmcpy_joss`](https://github.com/sou-cheng-choi/qmcpy_joss) contains the source files for the QMCPy paper to be submitted to the [Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS)](https://joss.theoj.org).
- The paper is also hosted on [Overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com/project/677ca1b09ea39e406392e350).
-->
- For internal discussions, join the QMCPy [Slack channel](https://speedyreliabl-dvj5497.slack.com/archives/C07PNS0DMDX).

---

<!-->
## Submission Guidelines
- [JOSS Paper Format](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/paper.html): Only markdown format is supported
- 250 to 1000 words (excluding references)
- [JOSS Example Paper](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_paper.html)
- [JOSS Review criteria](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/review_criteria.html)
- [Pieterjan's 2024 JOSS paper for GaussianRandomFields.jl](https://github.com/PieterjanRobbe/GaussianRandomFields.jl) 
  + in the repository's folder  "paper."
  + review process and **reviewer checklist** can be found here: https://github.com/openjournals/joss-reviews/issues/5595
- Put the JOSS paper in a (short-lived) `paper` branch created from the default branch --- no need to merge back to the default branch after review.

---
-->

## Contents
### Main File
- [**`main.md`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/main.md): Main paper source (Markdown format)

### Bibliography Files
- [**`FJH25.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/FJH25.bib): Fred J. Hickernell bibliography (2025)
- [**`FJHown25.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/FJHown25.bib): Bibliography entries of products by Hickernell
- [**`choi2025.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/choi2025.bib): Bibliography entries by Sou-Cheng T. Choi and co-authors (2025)
- [**`other.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/other.bib): Miscellaneous bibliography entries
- [**`refs_all.bib`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/refs_all.bib): Combined bibliography (auto-generated by `make`)

### Other Files
- [**`joss2025.ipynb`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/demos/talk_paper_demos/JOSS2025/joss2025.ipynb): Jupyter notebook with QMCPy code for reproducing figures in the paper
- [**`JOS2025.outputs`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/tree/joss/demos/talk_paper_demos/JOSS2025/JOSS2025.outputs): Figures and data for JOSS submission

### Build System
- [**`joss.yml`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/.github/workflows/joss.yml): GitHub Actions CI/CD configuration
- [**`Makefile`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/Makefile): Build system for Markdown and LaTeX workflows
- [**`include-code-files.lua`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/include-code-files.lua): Pandoc Lua filter of lines for inline inclusion of Python or text files in `main.md`
- [**`joss-simple.csl`**](https://github.com/QMCSoftware/QMCSoftware/blob/joss/paper/joss-simple.csl): Citation Style Language file for local compilation using make

--- 
## Building the Paper

### Remote Build 
The PDF is generated automatically on each commit:
1. Go to the [Actions page](https://github.com/sou-cheng-choi/qmcpy_joss/actions).
2. Open the latest workflow run.
3. Download the PDF from the Artifacts section.

### Local Build

Run:
```bash
cd paper
make
```
This cleans outputs, combines bibliographies, builds `main.pdf` with Pandoc, and shows the word count.

Or run the following command to produce `main.tex` (for arXiv) and compile `maintex.pdf`:
```bash   
make maintex_pdf
```

Other Commands:

- `make clean`: Removes auxiliary files.
- `make cleanall`: Deletes all outputs, including PDFs.
- `make refs_all.bib`: Combines bibliography files.
- `make wordcount`: Counts words in `main.md` (excludes metadata/references).
- `make install-mac`:  Install required tools on macOS using Homebrew.
